[video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MMrY51GZ5X4)

So spells in the game are cast as slots.  There's different kinds of slots, QWER are champion slots 0-3, DF are summoner slots 0-1, items are item slots 0-5 with trinket being slot 6 and Recall being item (yes, item) slot 7, and then there's extra slots 0-15, which is what this is dealing with.

Extra slots are used for various reasons but they're not relevant, just that some spells cast other spells from the extra slots.  Originally, the convention was to have every character define their extra slots in their data file, and only a few champs would ever change them.  Yasuo (at least I think he was the first) started the idea of *not* defining *any* extra slots in his data file, and instead writing a spell into an extra slot immediately before you cast that slot.  This means you don't have to cross reference what extra slot you are casting with the extra spells listed in the data file, since you can just always know what you just put into any given slot.  Later champions started using this convention more and more, with Sylas making it mandatory in order to get his ult to work.  He needs to use all of those extra spells, and it's just easier to have them all write into their slots before casting rather than having to figure out which slots the stolen ult uses and which slots Sylas himself uses so that they don't end up interfering with each other.  Part of supporting Sylas was going through every Sylas-useable spell and making sure it always writes to an extra slot before casting it.

What happens with Ahri ult, is that they forgot to do that, but only when her dash gets interrupted (interrupted vs completed dashes use different script events, so they remembered to fix it for the completed dash event but forgot to copypaste that into the interrupted one).  Ahri's ult missiles happen to use extra slot 5.  Since the slot isn't being written to before casting, it just attempts to cast whatever was put in that slot last, potentially nothing if Sylas hasn't used a spell that writes to extra slot 5 yet that game.  This means any Sylas-useable spells that use extra slot 5 are copyable by interrupting Ahri ult.  So far this includes Poppy ult and Shyvana dragon E (but Shyv only works with rank 2 ult, because E size scales with ult rank and each size is a unique spell, they just happen to sit in slots 4, 5, and 6).

Theoretically this can happen with any combination of Sylas-useable spells as long as you can find one that forgets to write an extra slot before casting and then can also find other spells that also use that slot.  Slot 5 on its own isn't special, it's just happens to be what Ahri ult uses without always writing to it first.

The annoying part with this is that it's not clear from client-side files who all uses extra slot 5 with their ult.  There's a handful of champions that have something ult-related in that slot *based on their data file*.  Most of that list puts something in that slot without actually using it, and it's possible to list nothing in that slot but still use it in-game (like Poppy), or even list an unrelated spell that then gets overridden by something else later.  You're forced to test for them individually, although you can make some educated guesses about it (most older champs aren't going to use extra spells unless there's a missile involved, and a lot of newer ones tend to use fewer extra spells).

There's probably also at least one other spell that can play the role of Ahri's ult here, but that would require managing to find a matching spell that also uses whatever slot the other spell forgets to write to.  Unfortunately with Ahri ult, the slot it's using is higher than normal, so it misses out on a lot of possibilities.  There may be another spell that uses a lower slot that and has a higher overlap with other spells.
